
# Unite US Excersices

Exercise 1: Writng Test Cases

ex_1-api_test: Verify you can filter providers by need in an API test: Write a test case with one assertion you would make.
Given that https://nccare360.resources.uniteus.io/ has API endpoints
And it allows query with filter
When user submit request using GET action with query parameter 
And the parameter name is supported
Then the service should return a filtered list of resources
And the item count of the filter list should equal to the expected item count
And the names of the entities should match the expected name list
ex_2-ui_test: Verify you can filter providers by need in a browser-based, user-interface test: Write a test case with one assertion you would make
Given that https://nccare360.resources.uniteus.io/ page has Filter panel(filter-container) , service list(list-pagination-container) and map panel(map-container)
And there are fileters displayed for user to make selection based on their needs
When user expand a filter category 
It should display the filter list
When user pick one of the filter
The service list and map should update accordingly
And the item count in the service list should match the expected item count
And the pagination should have number of pages equals (item count / 10)
And the names of teh entities should match the expected name list
And the map should have the sum of the number of entities represented by the buttoms equals the expected item count
and the map should have all the buttoms visible within the panel


Exercise 2: API Testing: 3rd Party Integrations

Questions:
How and where to get the API specification for 3rd party?
Which 3rd party API endpoints are involved in the transaction?
How to authenticate with the 3rd party API?
Do the authentication involved both direction and/or mTLS?
How to get authorization for the service if any?
How to get technical support for the 3rd party API?
What are the SLA and SLO? 
Where are the transaction/operation logs for requests and responses?

Tool:
Postman, cypress.io and/or testing code

Checking:
Authentication from/to third party system works faithfully and accurately
Go over OWASP top 10 list (https://owasp.org/Top10/) and test our service for those. For example, middle man attach and script injection
Validate the reponse for both side does miss or add any field.
Check the data type in the 3rd party response met the specification
Check input/data sanitization of our API enpoints
Make sure the databases are updated accordingly and failthfully
Make sure the error handling scenarios are covered and system behaves correctly


Exercise 3: Coding UI Test Automation
